---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 2"
permalink: "/2"
---

## Firefox 25 released ##

This week saw the release of Firefox 25, and the headline news was
support for the Web Audio API! It's fantastic news for Web Audio, as
having another implementation has really helped to drive the standard
forwards. I'm really pleased for the Mozilla team, it's a great
milestone. As well as the announcement, the team also released a great
demo and blog post showcasing some of the 3D sound capabilities of the
API. If you're at all interested in Web Audio, go and grab a copy of
FF25, try some of your favourite demos and give some feedback.

- [http://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/25.0/releasenotes/](http://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/25.0/releasenotes/)
- [https://hacks.mozilla.org/2013/10/songs-of-diridum-pushing-the-web-audio-api-to-its-limits/](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2013/10/songs-of-diridum-pushing-the-web-audio-api-to-its-limits/)

## Steller - a framework for composeable sound modules ##

The Web Audio API provides the building blocks for processing and
synthesis of audio, but one of it's design goals was to allow
developers to build more specialised APIs on top of it. Steller, from
Srikumar Subramanian, is an example of such an API. It follows the
graph-based principle of the Web Audio API itself, buts adds powerful
scheduling and graphics-synchronisation features. The demos are
intriguing, and there's a live-coding environment for trying out the
API.

- [https://github.com/srikumarks/steller/ ](https://github.com/srikumarks/steller/ )

## Novation/Focusrite working on cross-platform Web MIDI software ##

Novation, who build popular MIDI controllers, among other things, are
attempting to solve the problem of developing the control software for
their equipment on multiple platforms by experimenting with Web MIDI
and web-based applications. I think there's going to be some really
interesting applications for "real world" musicians to connect their
instruments to the web, download patches and share sounds with other
people. MIDI is the common language that all of these devices speak,
and bridging them to the web will be exciting. In this blog post, we
get a interesting take on how manufacturers are starting to experiment
with the API, and some of the challenges.

- [http://focusritedevelopmentteam.wordpress.com/2013/10/31/cross-platform-with-web-midi/](http://focusritedevelopmentteam.wordpress.com/2013/10/31/cross-platform-with-web-midi/) (via Dave Hodder at Focusrite)

## Listen to Conway's Game of Life ##

Conway's Game of Life is an influential cellular automata experiment
that illustrates how complex behaviour can emerge from the application
of simple rules.  But what does it sound like? Patrick Borgeat built
this version of Life but used Web Audio to turn each movement into
sound.

- [http://www.cappel-nord.de/webaudio/conways-melodies/](http://www.cappel-nord.de/webaudio/conways-melodies/)

## Train Your Ears ##

Experienced musicians, sound designers and studio engineers have an
uncanny ability to explain how a complex set of audio transforms has
been applied to create a particular sound. This recently-announced
online course from Queen's University Belfast promises to train you to
be able to do the same. It looks like an interesting course, is open
for free registration and starts early in the new year on the UK's
FutureLearn platform (disclaimer: I work for FutureLearn, but this
genuinely looks like an interesting course!)

- [https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/critical-listening-for-studio-production](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/critical-listening-for-studio-production)
