---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 7"
permalink: "/7"
---

## Recreating THXâ€™s Deep Note in JavaScript with the Web Audio API ##

This is a sound that is familiar to many cinema-goers, the THX Ltd.'s
"audio logo"
[Deep Note](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_Note). Stuart Memo was
asked to recreate it using the Web Audio API for last year's JSConf
EU, and in this blog post he shares the sound and the code used to
create it. Stuart's very prolific, and often creates interesting Web
Audio experiments. He's created a newsletter to share them: you should
[sign up](http://tinyletter.com/stuartmemo).

- [http://stuartmemo.com/thx-deep-note-in-javascript/](http://stuartmemo.com/thx-deep-note-in-javascript/)

## RSA Key Extraction via Low-Bandwidth Acoustic Cryptanalysis ##

This crazy article caught my eye over the break. Researcher's have
found a way to extract cryptographic keys using acoustic analysis of
the high-pitched squeals our laptop computers make. The full paper has
the fascinating details, but I'll link to the summary page to save you
an 8Mb download.

- [http://www.cs.tau.ac.il/~tromer/acoustic/](http://www.cs.tau.ac.il/~tromer/acoustic/)

## Pitch detection ##

A while ago Chris Wilson, developer evangelist at Google and all-round
Web Audio good-guy, released a simple pitch detection demo using the
Web Audio API. You'd use pitch detection to build a guitar tuner, for
example. Pitch detection, especially in more complicated cases can get
very difficult. In this post, Chris talks about how he improved his
initial simple algorithm, and shares a lot of really useful tips for
building Web Audio applications. Of particular interest is his advice
on syncing animation with audio in our applications.

- [https://plus.google.com/u/0/+ChrisWilson/posts/9zHsF9PCDAL](https://plus.google.com/u/0/+ChrisWilson/posts/9zHsF9PCDAL)

## Metamath Music ##

Finally, it wouldn't be Web Audio Weekly without something esoteric
and MIDI-related. This time (via @andrewn), this article talks about
the relationship between mathematical proofs and music. The author has
derived musical pieces from automated analysis of mathematical
proofs. Head the warning, however: "make sure your media player is set
to a 'piano' sound and not an 'electronic organ' sound, otherwise it
will sound horrible".

- [http://us.metamath.org/mpegif/mmmusic.html](http://us.metamath.org/mpegif/mmmusic.html)
