---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 13"
permalink: "/13"
---

## Soundslice ##

Soundslice is an interactive sheet music and guitar tabulator viewer
that uses Canvas and Web Audio together to help musicians learn songs
and share their transcriptions and compositions. As the music plays
the sheet music highlights the current note in real time. If a
particular passage is proving tricky to master, the tempo can be
reduced. Synthesised sounds can replace real sounds, making it
pleasant to listen to even at low tempos. The polish and ease of use
is really impressive, and it's great to see Web Audio technology being
used in a commercial product. I'm hoping to interview Adrian at
Soundslice for a future issue of this newsletter to get an insight
into the technical implementation - so watch this space.

- [http://www.soundslice.com/](http://www.soundslice.com/)

## Connecting external devices to smartphones using Web Audio ##

Connecting external devices to smartphones is not an easy task for the
independent developer. Licensing the technology to use the "lightning"
connector on an iOS device can be prohibitively expensive, for
example. Colin Bookman has an interesting idea - use the Web Audio API
to decode signals sent over the audio jack. In this blog post Colin
presents the software and hardware required to transfer data at
16bits/s with an error rate of around 5% encoded as a stream of sine
wave pulses.

- [http://colinbookman.com/2014/03/23/micio/](http://colinbookman.com/2014/03/23/micio/)

## MIDI HACK ##

MIDI HACK is a hackday hosted by Spotify in their HQ in Sweden in
May. It looks to have a hardware-focus, but I'm sure there'll be
plenty of interesting things you could build using the Web Audio or
Web MIDI APIs. Applications are open until the 13th April, so if you
can make it to Sweden in May, go and sign up.

- [http://www.midihack.com/](http://www.midihack.com/)

## Listen to sorting algorithms ##

Daniel Stocks, a web developer from Sweden, has taken the
visualisation of sorting algorithms one step further - he's used the
Web Audio API to turn them into strangely compelling random
compositions.

- [http://webcloud.se/Assortment](http://webcloud.se/Assortment)

## The drum machine that changed music ##

"For a person like me that's spent years around music technology,
these humble little boxes tend to take on personalities."

In this short BBC Radio 4 documentary, Graham Massey gives a
fascinating overview of the influence of the Roland TR-808 machine on
music, with plenty of technical detail and great examples of the
machine in use.

- [http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p01vzj7v](http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p01vzj7v) (/via @andrewn)
