---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 10"
permalink: "/10"
---

## hya.io: A graph-based audio workstation ##

Cristiano Belloni announced the alpha release of his Web Audio DAW
(digital audio workstation) this week. It's already a very impressive
tool, with the ability to combine a number of custom effects and
instruments together using a graph-like interface, share and save your
creations, and create new plugins using the javascript console and a
custom set of libraries. MIDI support and the ability to connect a
microphone are there too. I think this is going to be really powerful
if people start developing plugins for it, but for now Cristiano will
no doubt appreciate everyone having a play and sending feedback.

- [hya.io](http://hya.io/)

## webAudioContext --> AudioContext in Chrome ##

The Blink team (that's the browser engine that inside Google's Chrome
browser) have announced an Intent to Ship for unprefixed Web Audio
context. That means that in an upcoming release of Chrome (TBC),
AudioContext should be used in preference to webkitAudioContext. This
is great news for interoperability with Firefox's Web Audio
implementation. It seems like
[for the time being](http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-audio/2014JanMar/0110.html),
the prefixed, "legacy" implementation will remain, but if you have
application that hasn't already made the switch, there's some tools
out there to make sure your code will work in as many browsers as
possible. Mozilla have
[a handy guide](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2013/08/writing-web-audio-api-code-that-works-in-every-browser/)
to help with the transition.

- [Public Service Announcement: Blink unprefixing Web Audio](http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-audio/2014JanMar/0110.html)

## WebAudiox.js ##

Jerome Etienne describes WebAudiox.js as "a DRY library" - it's a
collection of helper functions to make some common things easy when
working with Web Audio applications. There's some helpers for drawing
waveforms to a canvas from the AnalyserNode, some that help with the
repetition of loading samples into buffers and playing them, and
others for positioning sound in 3d spaces. They look really useful for
game programming, and if your coding style matches Jerome's they'll
probably fit neatly into your workflow.

- [https://github.com/jeromeetienne/webaudiox](https://github.com/jeromeetienne/webaudiox)

## A little tip about AudioContext.currentTime ##

I'm in the process of writing an article about building a simple
sequencer with Web Audio. I lost a couple of hours this week when I
failed to realise that, in Chrome at least, currentTime on
AudioContext doesn't advance until a node has been created. That is

    var ctx = new AudioContext
    ctx.currentTime

will always return zero, until you do something like

    ctx.createGain()

It's unusual to create a context and then do nothing with it, but if
you are just developing or debugging some timing code, it's something
to watch out for. It's expected behaviour in Chrome for optimisation
reasons, but probably something that should be clarified in the
specification.

- [AudioContext.currentTime stays locked at 0 for a period after creation](https://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=159359)

## Read O'Reilly's Web Audio API book for free ##

Boris Smus's book for O'Reilly "Web Audio API" is now available to
read online for free! It's a fantastic overview of the API with some
great demos to study as well. In HTML format it means that these demos
work right alongside the text. As with all books about emerging web
technologies, it has become a little out-of-date already in places but
don't worry, you have Web Audio Weekly to keep you up to date ;).

- [Web Audio API by Boris Smus](http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1234000001552) (/via @igrigorik)

## "Biscuit tins made of sound" ##

I left you last time with 90 minutes of synth geekery. This week the
time-deprived among you might prefer this 10 minute Vinyl Factory
documentary on the story of the BBC Radiophonic Workshop. Featuring
interviews with some of the surviving members of the legendary BBC
outfit.

- [Pioneers of Sound](http://www.thevinylfactory.com/vinyl-factory-films/pioneers-of-sound-documentary-bbc-radiophonic-workshop/) (/via @pete_warren)
