---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 16"
permalink: "/16"
---

## Bandhub ##

Bandhub is a collaborative recording environment. Anyone can record a
track to create a new song, add tracks to existing songs, or start a
song from a YouTube video. The recording app is a native application,
but the playback and mixing interface is powered by Web Audio. The
developer [Pablo Osinaga](https://twitter.com/posinaga) told me that
they are working on adding per-track audio effects using the
offlineAudioContext node to render the effects faster than real-time,
which will be great to see.

- [http://bandhub.us/](http://bandhub.us/)

## Theresa's Sound World ##

Stuart Memo, the prolific author of great Web Audio demos, has
released the library he has developed to make working with the Web
Audio API a little easier. It wraps up some of the node factory
methods on AudioContext to allow nodes to be created with option
objects, which cuts down on some of the boiler plate. It provides a
neater syntax for connecting multiple nodes together, some
convenience functions for loading and playing samples, and also has a
selection of pre-built effects such as distortion and tremolo. It
comes with the Stuart's customary great documentation and sense of
humour.

- [http://theresassoundworld.com/](http://theresassoundworld.com/)

## ChucK demos ##

ChucK is a popular music programming language often used for
educational and live-coding applications. Arve Knudsen has developed a
parser for the ChucK language in JavaScript that can also execute the
ChucK code using Web Audio for playback. It's in its early stages at
the moment, but Arve has put together a demo page of examples ported
from the official ChucK documentation. It's an interesting development
to see Web Audio being used to allow users of other musical
programming languages to develop applications for the web platform.

- [http://chuckdemos.com/](http://chuckdemos.com/)
- [https://github.com/aknuds1/chuckjs](https://github.com/aknuds1/chuckjs)

## Fields ##

In Fields, Sébastien Piquemal has created a collaborative performance
where the audience members become musicians, interacting and creating
the performance using an array of musical devices. The tablets and
smartphones themselves distribute the sound throughout the performance
space. A great video on Vimeo explains it better than I can, and the
live-performance web server powering the project, Rhizome, is
available on Github. Sébastien promises a blog post with more details,
so watch this space.

- [http://vimeo.com/92586493](http://vimeo.com/92586493)
- [https://github.com/sebpiq/rhizome](https://github.com/sebpiq/rhizome)

## Two ways to see sound ##

We know from school physics that sound travels in waves. I remember my
physics teacher demonstrating the compression and rarefaction that
causes sound to transmit using a slinky spring. But there are other
fascinating ways to make sound visible. This blog post has videos
showing two of them.

- [http://blog.revolutionanalytics.com/2014/04/seeing-sound.html](http://blog.revolutionanalytics.com/2014/04/seeing-sound.html)
