---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 17"
permalink: "/17"
---

## Improve the Web Audio API by writing tests ##

The W3C, who are standardising the Web Audio API and the Web MIDI API,
have a comprehensive set of tests that browser vendors can use to make
sure their implementations are compliant with the specification. The
tests for the Web Audio and Web MIDI APIs are still at a very early
stage though, and could really use your help. Writing tests, or
porting them from the Webkit, Blink or Gecko code bases, is a great
way to improve support for the APIs, and will make it easier for other
vendors to add support. I wrote a blog post to show you how to get
involved.

- [Writing tests for the Web Audio API](http://blog.chrislowis.co.uk/2014/04/30/testing-web-audio.html)

## Web Audio Editor in Firefox ##

Mozilla are working on an extension to their developer tools which
allows debugging and editing of Web Audio applications. It's only
available in Firefox Nightly at the moment, and you have to enable it
by clicking on the "cog" icon when you open the developer toolbar. It
currently allows introspection of the graph of nodes within an
AudioContext, and the editing of parameters of individual nodes. This
looks like it will be an incredibly useful tool for Web Audio
developers, and is definitely one to watch.

- [A tweet showing a screenshot of the editor](https://twitter.com/f12devtools/status/459204549895782400/photo/1)
- [https://nightly.mozilla.org/](https://nightly.mozilla.org/)

## Visualising Audio with the Web Audio API ##

One of the use cases used to inform the design of the Web Audio API
was to allow sound and music to be turned into synchronised visuals in
a straight forward way. The API has a built in AnalyserNode to allow
time and frequency domain analysis on the fly. You can also use the
ScriptProcessorNode to do more sophisticated analysis using your own
JavaScript code. In this talk from last year's HTML5DevConf Jordan
Santell covers all of those topics and more.

- [Browser Dance Party: Visualizing Audio with the Web Audio API](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TdgBAhGmoH4)

## Designing Godzilla's Scream ##

The sound effects we hear in TV, film and games are often not created
in the way we'd expect them to be. In the case of Godzilla, unable to
find a real life giant lizard monster, the sound designers had to
resort to a combination of clever techniques to generate the iconic
noise.

- [Designing Godzilla's scream](http://www.wired.com/2014/05/designing-godzillas-scream/) (/via @stuartmemo)

## The New York School of Synthesis ##

A series of videos on how to program synthesisers, including a lot of
well-explained basics on oscillators, envelopes, envelope-controlled
filters and more, most of which is directly applicable to programming
the Web Audio API. The first video in the series starts pretty slowly,
so skip ahead to the last third to see how to programme a string
patch. As is customary for the final link of this newsletter, it also
features a bloke with a beard.

- [Intro to Synthesis Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=atvtBE6t48M)
