---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 23"
permalink: "/23"
---

## Beat Detection Using JavaScript and the Web Audio API ##

A great article from Joe Sullivan on performing beat detection using
the Web Audio API. I like the way Joe takes us through the technique
in an experimental way rather than just introducing the algorithm and
its implementation.

- [Beat Detection Using JavaScript and the Web Audio API](http://tech.beatport.com/2014/web-audio/beat-detection-using-web-audio/)

## Web Audio Hackday ##

If you can get yourself to Berlin on the 12th September, SoundCloud
are hosting what looks to be a fantastic day of workshops and Web
Audio hacking. I'm really excited to see what comes out of the day,
and will keep an eye on things to feature here in the newsletter. The
hackday is happening just before JSConf.eu, so if you're in Berlin for
that make sure to sign up.

- [Web Audio Hack Day tickets](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/web-audio-hack-day-tickets-12451959145)

## jsaSound ##

Lonce Wyse, professor at the National University of Singapore, has
developed a new library to make sharing Web Audio code easier. It
provides a consistent interface for a given group of Web Audio
nodes. Working at a slightly higher level than native Web Audio allows
more complicated building blocks to be connected together. The
projects website gives a lot of different examples including a vowel
synthesiser, a
[Karplus-Strong](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karplus%E2%80%93Strong_string_synthesis)
string synthesiser.

- [jsaSound for Interactive Sound on the Web](http://animatedsoundworks.com:8001/)
- [https://github.com/lonce/jsaSound](https://github.com/lonce/jsaSound)

## Audio Sort ##

A visualisation of various sorting algorithms accompanied by
synthesised "audibilizations". The project uses
[timbre.js](https://mohayonao.github.io/timbre.js/) which is a
pure-javascript audio library with a flash fallback for older
browsers.

- [http://skratchdot.com/projects/audio-sort/](http://skratchdot.com/projects/audio-sort/)

## Qwerty Hancock ##

Need an instant musical keyboard for your web audio project? Stuart
Memo's spectacularly-named keyboard library, Qwerty Hancock has
reached v0.4.1, with some visual tweaks and bug fixes but the same
simple API and great documentation.

- [Qwerty Hancock](http://stuartmemo.com/qwerty-hancock/)

## Extracting audio from visual information ##

"Researchers at MIT, Microsoft, and Adobe have developed an algorithm
that can reconstruct an audio signal by analyzing minute vibrations of
objects depicted in video. In one set of experiments, they were able
to recover intelligible speech from the vibrations of a potato-chip
bag photographed from 15 feet away through soundproof glass."

- [Extracting audio from visual information](http://newsoffice.mit.edu/2014/algorithm-recovers-speech-from-vibrations-0804)
