---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 15"
permalink: "/15"
---

## Building a collaborative music production environment ##

Jan Monschke has recently completed his Master's degree thesis which
describes the design of a system for collaborative music making on the
web. It's an approachable but detailed read with a great overview of
the signal processing concepts behind the Web Audio API's various
nodes, as well as some more specific sections on the details of his
approach, including dealing with synchronisation and three-way merges
in the context of a music editing environment.

- [Building a collaborative music production environment using emerging web standards](https://github.com/janmonschke/Master-s-Thesis---Web-Audio-DAW)

## Mixhub ##

Mixhub is a collaborative multi-track mixer. You can upload short
samples to create your own mix, or join another person's mix and add
your own tracks on top. There's a simple interface for muting each
track, and for adding some effects. You'll find these at the bottom of
each mix page (it took me a little while to figure that out). You can
import tracks from Soundcloud, and I can see this application as
adding some collaborative features on top of Soundcloud to allow
musicians to share ideas more easily.

- [http://mixhub.mu/](http://mixhub.mu/)

## Lissajous ##

Lissajous is a live-coding, real-time performance environment which
uses the developer console in Chrome as the instrument. It's worth
watching the [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jBRqOp5ws58)
before diving into the [code](https://github.com/kylestetz/lissajous)
because you'll need to learn some details of the API Lissajous
provides before it'll start to make sense. Lissajous provides multiple
sequenced tracks which can trigger samples or synthesised instruments,
and is in active development.

- [https://github.com/kylestetz/lissajous](https://github.com/kylestetz/lissajous)

## Shoreditch Experimental Music School (1969) ##

"We go back to Shoreditch in 1969 and take a look at their
experimental music school, teaching children about the methods of
then-contemporary music."

- [http://sampleface.co.uk/throwback-thursday-shoreditch-experimental-music-school-1969/](http://sampleface.co.uk/throwback-thursday-shoreditch-experimental-music-school-1969/)

## BBC Outriders: World of Sound ##

In last week's Outriders podcast Jamillah Knowles interviewed
[Dev Moran](https://twitter.com/grigorisounds), the sound designer
responsible for iOS game Monument Valley,
[Rich Vreeland](https://twitter.com/Disasterpeace), composer of the
music for indie game Fez and [me](https://twitter.com/chrislowis)
about composition, sound in games and the future of audio on the web.

- [http://downloads.bbc.co.uk/podcasts/fivelive/pods/pods_20140408-0424a.mp3](http://downloads.bbc.co.uk/podcasts/fivelive/pods/pods_20140408-0424a.mp3)
