---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 8"
permalink: "/8"
---

## Granular Synthesiser ##

A great granular synthesis demo from Ehsan Ziya (aka Ä€tour). It works
very well on a multi-touch device too, so try it on an iOS device, or
Chrome on an Android tablet.

- [Granular Synthesiser](http://www.chromeexperiments.com/detail/granular-synthesiser/)

## The Viability of the Web Browser as a Computer Music Platform ##

Lonce Wyse and Srikumar Subramanian have written this academic paper
for the influential Computer Music Journal. They discuss the web
browser as a computer music platform, with particular emphasis on the
Web Audio API. It's not a tutorial per-se, but it covers a lot of
ground and attempts to answer some common questions about performance
and scalability. A very interesting read if you have the time. Chris
Rogers, the original developer of the Web Audio API and former editor
of the W3C specification is thanked for technical input in the
acknowledgments, so you know you're getting detailed, accurate
information.

-[The Viability of the Web Browser as a Computer Music Platform](http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1162/COMJ_a_00213)

## WebkitGTK enables Web Audio ##

WebkitGTK, the version of the webkit browser engine with a GTK
frontend, has shipped with Web Audio API support. An interesting
development for Linux users, it may also allow the development of
webkit-based audio applications on Linux.

- [WebkitGTK enables Web Audio](http://news.softpedia.com/news/WebKitGTK-2-2-4-Enables-Web-Audio-by-Default-420048.shtml)

## A brief history of sampling ##

A quick but entertaining video looking at the history of sampling -
reusing short snippets of audio to create new sounds and music.

- [A brief history of sampling](http://www.openculture.com/2014/01/a-brief-history-of-sampling.html) (/via [@patrick_h_lauke](https://twitter.com/patrick_h_lauke))

## Programming analog synthesizers ##

A lot of the power of the Web Audio API lies in knowing how to connect
the various building blocks together to create interesting sounds. As
developers, we can take a lot of inspiration from the "programmers" of
traditional analogue synthesisers. Here's two inspiring links. In the
first, Ethan Winer, shows us how to create sounds using soft/analogue
synths. Topics include oscillators, ADSR envelope generators, filters,
LFOs, and more. It's a nice touch to show the waveforms being generated.

The second link contains the owner's manual for the classic ARP 2500
modular synthesiser. Part 2 of the manual in particular has a number
of example patches - see if you can recreate them using the Web Audio
API.

- [How to program analog synthesizers](http://vimeo.com/1309545)
- [ARP 2500 Owner's Manual](http://www.guitarfool.com/ARP2500.html)
