---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 11"
permalink: "/11"
---

## Web Audio supports live performance by LCO and Jonny Greenwood ##

At a recent performance by the London Contemporary Orchestra,
featuring music composed by Radiohead's Jonny Greenwood, members of
the audience were asked to contribute to the music by loading a web
page on their smart phones and play a Web Audio-powered instrument
along with the performers on stage. The instrument was devised and
built by London agency With Associates, and their developer Jamie
shares the experience and some of the code in this informative blog
post.

When I speak to people who build applications using Web Audio I often
hear about its limitations and idiosyncrasies. But I think it's
really important to remember that the API allows this kind of
experimentation and mass-participation - everyone with a smartphone
that runs a recent browser has a powerful, networked musical
environment waiting to be used!

- [http://2014.withassociates.com/projects/lco-and-jonny-greenwood](http://2014.withassociates.com/projects/lco-and-jonny-greenwood)

## JSnode ##

Tucked away in one of Srikumar Subramanian's repositories on Github is
this really interesting library which extends Web Audio's
ScriptProcessorNode in very useful ways. ScriptProcessorNode allows
you to write custom audio processing code at the sample level using
javascript. But the node provided by Web Audio has some limitations
around connectivity and the ability to add AudioParams to control the
output of the node based on the input from other nodes. Srikumar has a
very neat approach to solving some of these limitations, and his
library is sure to be useful to anyone who wants to implement their
own custom processing but still use the built-in nodes alongside.

- [https://github.com/srikumarks/steller/blob/experimental_buildsys/src/models/jsnode.js](https://github.com/srikumarks/steller/blob/experimental_buildsys/src/models/jsnode.js)

## music.js ##

Musicians are used to describing sound in terms of keys, scales and
notes. The Web Audio API prefers us to use frequencies in Hertz. The
solution? Music.js is simple but powerful javascript library that
allows you to convert between the two.

- [https://github.com/gregjopa/music.js](https://github.com/gregjopa/music.js)

## Making car sounds with web audio synthesis ##

For their recent
[Red Bull racing game for Chrome on iOS](http://www.redbullracechallenge.se/),
web development studio Earth People used the Web Audio API to generate
the sound of the car's engine. The blog post is a little light on the
details of the synthesis of the engine noise itself, but the demo they
do link to is a compact example of frequency modulation (where one
oscillator controls the frequency of another). It's great to see Web
Audio being used for browser games too.

- [http://labs.earthpeople.se/2014/02/making-car-sound-with-web-audio-synthesis/](http://labs.earthpeople.se/2014/02/making-car-sound-with-web-audio-synthesis/)

## Roland announces successor to TR-808 ##

The classic and much-emulated Roland TR-808 drum machine is now X
years old. Roland have just announced its successor, the TR-8. What I
find really interesting about this is that the lack of a screen is
described in the demo video as a feature of the machine rather than a
limitation. It is sometimes hard to imagine that on the web platform
we will ever be able to have interfaces as powerful as desktop
applications such as Pro Tools, Ableton Live or Logic Pro. But the
continued popularity of machines such as the TR-808 and its successor,
show us that music-making can be done with innovative, humane and
simple interfaces - something which the web can excel at.

- [http://www.theverge.com/2014/2/14/5405878/roland-aira-tr-8-return-of-the-808](http://www.theverge.com/2014/2/14/5405878/roland-aira-tr-8-return-of-the-808) (/via @bascule)
