---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 44"
permalink: "/44"
---

## Rain Today - your daily source of natural rain sounds ##

If you work in a busy office, you might have found yourself reaching
for headphones to help deal with the constant background noise. While
music works well to mask background sounds, it can be
distracting. Some people advocate listening to white noise due to its
broad range of frequencies. But listening to white noise for long
periods is fatiguing. This application generates a natural sound of
rain falling. To avoid becoming repetitive the app uses the Web Audio
API to seamlessly blend different sounds together to create a
different backdrop every day.

- [http://rain.today/](http://rain.today/)

## Submissions open for the 2nd International Web Audio Conference ##

Submissions are now open for talks, demos, tutorials, posters and live
music events at the 2nd Web Audio Conference to be held next April in
Atlanta, Georgia, USA. At the 1st conference in Paris earlier this
year, there was a great mix of talks from developers and musicians as
well as academics and I'm sure next year will be great too.

- [http://webaudio.gatech.edu/](http://webaudio.gatech.edu/)

## Smooth Fading in Web Audio ##

A common problem when working with the Web Audio API concerns parameter
automation. Once you've scheduled a series of parameter changes for a
node, you cannot reliably know what the current value of its parameter
is at any point in time, as there is no facility for introspection of
calculated parameters. This makes it hard to reverse of change the
parameters in a smooth way. This library from
[Chinmay](https://twitter.com/ntt/) solves the problem by implementing
the same parameter automation calculations as the scheduling methods
in the Web Audio API and therefore to schedule new changes that will
smoothly follow the scheduled ones.

- [https://github.com/notthetup/smoothfade](https://github.com/notthetup/smoothfade)

## Dynamic Sound with the Web Audio API in Microsoft Flight Simulator Arcade ##

A great write up from the Microsoft development team on how they used
the Web Audio API to provide the sounds for their new game Flight
Simulator Arcade. There's some code samples showing how convolution
can provide a realistic simulated acoustic environment, and how to use
a `Waveshaper` node to simulate the effect of radio distortion on the
cockpit instructor's voice.

And in other Microsoft news, Windows 10 promises to ship with a fully
overhauled audio and MIDI subsystem, which should improve performance
and capabilities for desktop and Web Audio applications.

- [http://www.noupe.com](http://www.noupe.com/design/how-we-created-dynamic-sound-with-the-web-audio-api-in-microsoft-flight-simulator-arcade-92578.html) (/via [@pete_otaqui](https://twitter.com/pete_otaqui)
- [http://www.sonicstate.com/news/2015/07/21/why-microsofts-windows-10-audio-and-midi-apis-are-a-big-deal/](http://www.sonicstate.com/news/2015/07/21/why-microsofts-windows-10-audio-and-midi-apis-are-a-big-deal/)

## Web Audio Basics ##

A collection of small examples illustrating the basics of how to use
the Web Audio API. A great idea from Kyle Stetz, who is looking for
help and contributions.

- [https://github.com/kylestetz/Web-Audio-Basics](https://github.com/kylestetz/Web-Audio-Basics)

## Web Audio API auto-complete package for Sublime Text ##

If you do your Web Audio development in Sublime Text grab this set of
auto-complete functions to make your life a whole lot easier. The
completion dictionary is based on the latest editors draft of the
spec.

- [https://packagecontrol.io](https://packagecontrol.io/packages/Web%20Audio%20API%20Autocomplete)

## Social Media InterFace For Music ##

A proof-of-concept project from Andrew Faraday showing how to build
collaborative music-making experiences by combining social media
inputs (such as from Twitter) and Web Audio.

- [https://github.com/AJFaraday/smiff_music](https://github.com/AJFaraday/smiff_music)

## Angular Synthesiser ##

A Web Audio synthesiser built using the angular.js framework. If
you're a fan of Angular, or have been meaning to learn more - this
demo and its code might help.

- [http://fuczak.github.io/RumcaJS/](http://fuczak.github.io/RumcaJS/)

## Mentored Firefox Web Audio Improvements ##

If you've always wanted to contribute to Firefox, but didn't know
where to start, consider this improvement to the Web Audio API. The
issue is mentored by Web Audio developer and W3C Web Audio
specification editor Paul Adenot, and he offers to help newcomers to
Firefox development get their first patch landed.

- [Implement the optional normalization for AudioContext#createPeriodicWave](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1186345)

## Artist seminar with Tyler Marenyi ##

A recording of a two-hour workshop with Tyler Marenyi (aka NGHTMRE) in
which he covers many practical music production techniques (focusing
on Ableton Live, but with applications elsewhere) and the realities of
the music industry. The video is helpfully annotated so you can jump
to specific points of interest.

- [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7jl-LnAYjoM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7jl-LnAYjoM)
