---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 38"
permalink: "/38"
---

## Karplus-Strong String Synthesis ##

In this blog post, Matthew Rahtz shows how to synthesise string sounds
using the Web Audio API. He starts with a simple introduction into the
physics of how guitars, for example, make sound using a series of
interactive visualisations. He then gets into the Karplus-Strong
algorithm itself, which is capable of generating an amazing variety of
sounds from a simple set of principles. A great article.

- [http://amid.fish/karplus-strong/](http://amid.fish/karplus-strong/)

## Bringing Web Audio to Microsoft Edge ##

The developers of the next version of Microsoft's new browser
Microsoft Edge share their progress on an implementation of the Web
Audio spec. They give an overview of the API and talk about the
features they are currently working on.

*Update*: I'd said previously that Microsoft would not be supporting
`ScriptProcessorNode`. One of their developers got in touch to say
that that wasn't the case, they will support it, but are keenly
watching the developments with `AudioWorker` so they can properly
deprecate when other browsers drop their support for
`ScriptProcessorNode`.

- [Bringing Web Audio to Microsoft Edge](http://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2015/05/19/bringing-web-audio-to-microsoft-edge-for-interoperable-gaming-and-enthusiast-media/)

## SoundCite ##

A very useful, simple idea from the Knight Lab at Northwestern
University, SoundCite allows you to directly "cite" a piece of audio
within the flow of your text, making it easy for your readers to
quickly hear something without the distraction of an embedded
player. The demos on the project page explain it better than I can.

- [http://soundcite.knightlab.com/](http://soundcite.knightlab.com/)

## Fun with the Web Audio API ##

A collection of fun and informative Web Audio experiments implemented
inside the [Codepen](http://codepen.io/) 'IDE in a browser'
environment.

- [http://codepen.io/DonKarlssonSan/blog/fun-with-web-audio-api](http://codepen.io/DonKarlssonSan/blog/fun-with-web-audio-api)

## Keith McMillen make music in the browser ##

With the
[recent release of the Web MIDI API in Google Chrome](http://blog.chromium.org/2015/04/chrome-43-beta-web-midi-and-upgrading.html)
we are starting to see music instrument manufacturers experimenting
with the API to provide their customers a richer and more connected
experience. In this post, Keith McMillen the MIDI controller
manufacturer, introduce the Web MIDI API, give some useful code
snippets and outline some of its advantages to the rest of the
industry.

- [http://www.keithmcmillen.com/blog/making-music-in-the-browser-web-midi-api/](http://www.keithmcmillen.com/blog/making-music-in-the-browser-web-midi-api/)

## AudioDrop ##

This handy library from Kyle Stetz allows the drag-and-drop loading
and decoding of audio files into Web Audio `AudioBuffer` objects.

- [https://github.com/kylestetz/AudioDrop](https://github.com/kylestetz/AudioDrop)

## Raspberry PI as a Synthesiser ##

Phil Atkin has been optimising the 1st generation Raspberry PI for
sound generation, turning it into a powerful real-time 'analog' and
wavetable synth and sampler. Watching the
[demo on youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dWoJIYdjbuA) is the
best way to get a sense of how well this works, as at the moment the
code isn't available to run it yourself. But I'm looking forward to
having a play when it is!

- [http://raspberrypisynthesizer.blogspot.nl/](http://raspberrypisynthesizer.blogspot.nl/)
