---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 34"
permalink: "/34"
---

## Motion sensing using the Doppler effect ##

The Doppler effect will be familiar to you if you've ever heard an
emergency vehicle screaming past you at high speed. As the vehicle
approaches the pitch of the sound increases, and as it speeds away, it
falls. In this brilliant demo Daniel Rapp uses this effect to perform
motion sensing using your computer's speakers, microphone and the Web
Audio API.

- [https://danielrapp.github.io/doppler/](https://danielrapp.github.io/doppler/) (/via [@hughrawlinson](https://twitter.com/hughrawlinson))

## A comprehensive scheduling tool for Web Audio ##

One of the strengths of the Web Audio API is in its support for
precision scheduling of events. But you can only schedule audio events
on the audio timeline. To synchronise these changes to changes in your
user interface, you have to be quite careful. Chris Wilson's
[A tale of two clocks](http://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/audio/scheduling/)
blog post shows you how to do this, but helpfully, Sebastien Piquemal
has wrapped all of these techniques up in his WAAClock library, which
has just reached version 0.5.

- [https://github.com/sebpiq/WAAClock](https://github.com/sebpiq/WAAClock)

## Audiocogs: Audio codecs for the web ##

The Audiocogs team use JavaScript to build decoding libraries for a
number of popular audio codecs, including MP3, ALAC, FLAC and
AAC. This could be very useful if you want to support user-uploaded
file playback, without worrying about whether the browser has the
capabilities to play back natively.

- [http://audiocogs.org/codecs/](http://audiocogs.org/codecs/) (/via [@pixelblend](https://twitter.com/pixelblend))

## Detour hiring OS X engineer in SF to build text-driven audio sequencer ##

*Sponsored post*

[Detour](www.detour.com) is a new startup building a platform for
location-based audio tours. As part of Detour, they're building the
world's first text-driven audio sequencer, and are looking for someone
to join their team in San Francisco to lead development.

- [https://www.detour.com/jobs/osx-engineer](https://www.detour.com/jobs/osx-engineer)

## Sonoport Sound Models ##

At WAC15 Chinmay Pendharkar
[talked about](http://medias.ircam.fr/x71a427) porting an audio engine
from flash to the Web Audio API. They have now released the code for
this engine. It has a set of functions for creating sound textures -
by looping, triggering, scrubbing and extending audio - as well as
some effects. It's all packaged up in CommonJS and AMD forms.

- [https://github.com/Sonoport/soundmodels](https://github.com/Sonoport/soundmodels)

## W3C Multi-device timing community group ##

If you've ever tried to build web applications that require
synchronisation of time between multiple devices, you'll know how hard
it is to achieve with the current technology. The W3C MTCG has formed
to bring together people and organisations who are interested in
solving this problem in a unified way, and you may be interested to
join or follow their work if you're working in this area.

- [https://www.w3.org/community/webtiming/](https://www.w3.org/community/webtiming/)

## Circles, Sines and Signals: A primer on DSP ##

A solid knowledge of the techniques and theory of digital signal
processing (DSP) is very helpful when working on computer audio. This
fantastic collection of articles from Jack Schaedler is a
comprehensive, interactive primer covering sampling, aliasing, the
Nyquist theorem, Fourier transforms and more. A lot of people sent me
this, and I can see why, the interactive diagrams and visualisations
are wonderful and inspiring.

- [https://jackschaedler.github.io/circles-sines-signals/](https://jackschaedler.github.io/circles-sines-signals/)
