---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 48"
permalink: "/48"
---

## Creating an accessible breakout game ##

David Rousset writes about creating an accessible Breakout clone using
Web Audio and SVG, with particular focus on making the game playable
by blind and partially sighted players. By spatially positioning
sounds relative to the player using the Web Audio's `PannerNode` the
player can hear which direction to send a ball to break the
blocks. The post covers some other accessibility techniques too, and I
particularly enjoyed reading about how testing the game with users
revealed further enhancements and ideas.

- [Creating an accessible breakout game using Web Audio & SVG](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/davrous/archive/2015/08/27/creating-an-accessible-breakout-game-using-web-audio-amp-svg.aspx)

## Kodo Games Web Audio Tutorial ##

A great article from Nicola Hibbert introducing the Web Audio API to
games developers. Nicola covers loading sounds, the creation of sound
sprites, and how to cross-fade. It's good to see tutorials focused on
that audience in particular because although the concepts introduced
are similar to those used in musical applications, the use-cases and
terminology are quite different.

- [http://kodogames.com/web-audio-api-tutorial/](http://kodogames.com/web-audio-api-tutorial/)

## Microtonal Web Synth ##

Mitch Wells has been working hard on this Microtonal Web Synth since
we last looked at it back in issue 27. It's a web synth with an
emphasis on micro-tuning of the individual keys to allow the creation
of custom scales and tunings. The synth supports Web MIDI, so you can
hook up your controller keyboard, and has a comprehensive routing
system for filters.

If you're interested in microtuning and weird-and-wonderful scales
from the history of music, the `tune.js` library from Andrew Bernstein
and Ben Taylor includes a massive catalogue of over 3,000 of them. It
comes complete with an API for accessing and creating new ones, and a
demo synth to try them out.

- [http://www.websynths.com/](http://www.websynths.com/)
- [https://github.com/abbernie/tune](https://github.com/abbernie/tune)

## Online course: Audio Signal Processing for Music Applications ##

Stanford have announced this course on signal processing, with an
emphasis on applications in music technology. It looks to have a
comprehensive syllabus and covers practical applications using the
Python programming language. The course starts on the 21st September
and runs for 10 weeks.

- [http://online.stanford.edu/course/audio-signal-processing-music-applications-Fall_2015](http://online.stanford.edu/course/audio-signal-processing-music-applications-Fall_2015)

## Cat Purr Noise Generator ##

Online noise machine specialist Dr. Ir. St√©phane Pigeon has added
another noise machine to
[his stable](http://mynoise.net/noiseMachines.php), this time to
create the soothing sounds of a purring cat. You have control over the
exact frequency content of the purring sound, or you can choose from a
range of presets such as "Quiet Presence" or "Tiger Sleep".

- [Frequency-Shaped Cat Purr Noise Generator](http://mynoise.net/NoiseMachines/catPurrNoiseGenerator.php)

## Audio Sampling and the Delay Node ##

In this article from Sonoport, Tommy Robinson shows how to build a
sampler using the QWERTY keyboard library AudioKeys. The sound is made
more interesting with the introduction of a delay effect, and Tommy
goes into detail about how to use the various parameters of the Web
Audio `DelayNode` to add depth to the sound.

- [http://sonoport.github.io/sampler-and-delaynode.html](http://sonoport.github.io/sampler-and-delaynode.html)

## Dub Siren ##

Just in time for the Nottinghill Carnival last week, French sound
system Zongo Sound wrote in to tell me that they'd created this simple
Dub Siren.

- [http://siren.zongosound.com/](http://siren.zongosound.com/)

## Responsive Drum Machine ##

This Web Audio drum machine from Vincent Choqueuse is particularly
interesting for its clean bootstrap-powered user interface which
scales to your screen size, and for its use of "pages" to flip between
the step sequencer and the waveform editor.

- [http://vincentchoqueuse.github.io/drum_machine/](http://vincentchoqueuse.github.io/drum_machine/)

## WebMIDI "now working" on Firefox ##

An intriguing tweet from Kyle Machulis showing the progress so far on
bringing WebMIDI to Firefox. The patch still has to be cleaned up and
reviewed before it can be considered for inclusion, but it's exciting
to see the progress.

- [https://twitter.com/qDot/status/639232553182892032](https://twitter.com/qDot/status/639232553182892032)

## wOOfer-The Second Pie ##

A live-coded music video demonstration made with SonicPi on the
RaspberryPi.

- [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-1ZjJkYtBz4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-1ZjJkYtBz4)
