---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 52"
permalink: "/52"
---

## Piano Phase ##

A wonderful visualisation of Steve Reich's 1967 "Piano Phase" by
Alexander Chen. Two pianists repeat the same twelve note sequence, but
one gradually speeds up. Here the pianos are Web Audio-based, and the
visualisation shows them drifting slowly in and out of sync. Chen is a
Creative Director at Google Creative Lab and has produced some other
amazing audio-visual projects, including the 2011 Les Paul Google
Doodle.

- [http://www.pianophase.com/](http://www.pianophase.com/)
- [Alexander Chen's biography](http://www.chenalexander.com/Bio)

## Web MIDI Application Developer at Novation ##
### Sponsored post ###

We're creating a simple Web MIDI powered app for a new Novation
product, and we're looking for a seasoned web developer to help us
deliver it on a contract basis. If you love the Web MIDI API, and
you're familiar with Amazon AWS and front-end development, come and
work with us! We anticipate a month or two to get our first version
ready. After that, we'll see where it takes us! We're UK based, but
happy with remote working - though the closer to GMT you are, the
better.

- [Contract Web MIDI Developer](http://jobs.focusrite.com/focusrite/Search/Vacancy/All/1/1815851?feedID=2149)

## Typatone ##

In Typatone, from the team that brought us the amazing
[patatap](http://www.patatap.com/), text is turned into music as you
type. Each key corresponds to a note and after a period of typing the
tune you have composed is played back to you. You can download your
composition, share it with friends using a permanent URL, or even
embed the application elsewhere using an iframe.

- [http://www.typatone.com/](http://www.typatone.com/)

## Web Audio Advent Calendar: Call for Contributions ##

Advent is nearly here, and the folks behind `wham-js` need your help
in building 25 Web Audio synths for the festive season. The full
details and how to contribute are in the link below.

- [https://github.com/wham-js/web-audio-advent-calendar/issues/1](https://github.com/wham-js/web-audio-advent-calendar/issues/1)

## Amplitude Modulation Synthesis ##

A great tutorial and demo from the Keith McMillen Instruments blog on
synthesising sounds using AM Synthesis. It's fascinating how complex
sounds can be created from simply combining two oscillators in
clever ways, and I love the new on-brand KMI virtual keyboard!

- [http://www.keithmcmillen.com/blog/making-music-in-the-browser-web-audio-and-midi-api-amplitude-modulation/](http://www.keithmcmillen.com/blog/making-music-in-the-browser-web-audio-and-midi-api-amplitude-modulation/)

## Web Audio Multiple Track Waveform Editor ##

A multi-track waveform editor inspired by Audacity and implemented
using the Web Audio API by Naomi Aro. This application already
supports multiple tracks, waveform editing and drag-and-drop upload of
files. There's also support for recording tracks directly into the app
using your computers inputs (and the `getUserMedia` API), and the
source code is available on github.

- [http://naomiaro.github.io/waveform-playlist](http://naomiaro.github.io/waveform-playlist)

## Working with the Babylon.js Game Engine ##

In this article David Rousset from Microsoft shows us how to use the
Web Audio API, and in particular the `babylon.js` open-source game
engine, to create the sense of space in our web audio application by
using directional sound and 3D sound models. It's great to see more
game-oriented tutorials, and in particular to see how well Microsoft
Edge now supports the Web Audio API.

- [Creating fun & immersive audio experiences with Web Audio](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/davrous/archive/2015/11/05/creating-fun-amp-immersive-audio-experiences-with-web-audio.aspx)

## Paul Adenot at jsconf.asia '15 ##

Paul Adenot, co-editor of the W3C Web Audio spec and chief Web Audio
hacker at Mozilla has been out in Singapore this week speaking at the
jsconf.asia conference. He demo'd the Web Audio API and in particular
how we can use it for live coding and demoscene applications. The
videos of his talk aren't yet available, but the minimal
demoscence-style literate program he's written, and the slides of his
talk are well worth digging in to.

- [https://github.com/padenot/litsynth](https://github.com/padenot/litsynth)
- [https://github.com/padenot/jsconf.asia-15](https://github.com/padenot/jsconf.asia-15)

## Tracking with Ultrasound Beacons ##

I found this discussion on the W3C Audio Working Group mailing list
interesting. Some companies are using inaudible, high-frequency sounds
to allow them to link users devices together. For example, the fact
that you've used your mobile to visit an advert you've just seen on TV
might be recorded by embedding a high-frequency tone in the TV ad that
your mobile device (surreptitiously) records. I don't think
responsibility for preventing this lies within the scope of the Web
Audio API, but it's an interesting challenge for the web platform as a
whole.

- [Tracking with ultrasound beacons. Web Audio API privacy considerations need updating?](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-privacy/2015OctDec/0123.html)
