---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 33"
permalink: "/33"
---

## Web Audio Meetups in London and New York ##

I've been talking to a few Web Audio enthusiasts in London about
organising a meetup for us to share presentations, demos, code and
good times with each other. If that sounds interesting to you, you
have something to present, would like to attend or can offer a venue
or sponsorship, please send me an email or a tweet for more
information. When we've organised a date and time we'll let you all
know!

In the meantime, if you're in New York in March, Splice are hosting a
"Web Audio Show and Tell" at their offices on 20th street. It sounds
like it'll be a great event, and I look forward to hearing about what
was shown!

- [http://www.meetup.com/New-York-Web-Audio-Meetup/events/220655389/](http://www.meetup.com/New-York-Web-Audio-Meetup/events/220655389/)

## Birdsongs, Musique Concrète, and the Web Audio API ##

Using a combination of crowd-sourced field recordings and knowledge of
your location Brian Belet and Bill Walker have created an application
that creates soundscapes consisting of layers of birdsongs. The
authors describe their use of various sources of data and the Web
Audio API in a writeup on the Mozilla blog.

- [oiseaux de même](http://birdwalker.com:9090/quartet.html)
- [Birdsongs, Musique Concrète, and the Web Audio API](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2015/02/birdsongs-musique-concrete-and-the-web-audio-api/)

## What's new in Web Audio in Firefox 37/38 ##

If you're not tracking the small changes to the editors' draft of the
Web Audio API, I don't blame you! Fortunately, Soledad Penadés and
Chris Mills have, and in this article they give an overview of the
latest additions to Firefox's Web Audio API support. The Firefox team
have implemented some of the latest changes to the specification and
including the new, simpler `StereoPannerNode` and promise-based
versions of common Web Audio API calls.

- [https://hacks.mozilla.org/2015/02/whats-new-in-web-audio/](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2015/02/whats-new-in-web-audio/)

## Pentaphone ##

A lot of the online tools for making music that we've talked about in
the past in this newsletter are very complicated. They often require
you to already understand how real-world synthesisers or computer
music techniques work before making something that sounds good. In
this demo Bill Gathan has taken an alternative approach. By
restricting your musical choices to notes from a pentatonic scale,
almost any combination of chords and notes sounds great!

Bill is also combining [React.js](https://facebook.github.io/react/),
Facebook's innovative javascript framework, with the Web Audio
API. There's a lot of things to learn from this demo.

- [https://billgathen.github.io/pentaphone/](https://billgathen.github.io/pentaphone/)

## Web Looper ##

Web Looper is a loop-based performance tool. It records sounds from
your microphone (using the `getUserMedia` API), loops them and allows
you to layer up the loops into a composition. There's some simple
effects you can apply and interestingly it features "rooms" where you
can listen to other people's experiments built using `WebRTC`. The code
is open source, so it's also a good example of how you can connect all
of these technologies together.

- [http://weblooper.hackandstack.com/](http://weblooper.hackandstack.com/)

## Babylon.js v2.0 ##

[Babylon.js](http://babylonjs.com/) is a 3D game engine built using
javascript and `WebGL`. It has just reached the `2.0` milestone, and
with the new release the developers have added an audio engine using
the Web Audio API. The tutorial on the Babylon.js documentation site
gives a good overview of its capabilities. They've decided not to
offer any fall-back support for browsers that do not support Web Audio
which is a good indication of the level of support the API enjoys now
in many browsers.

- [Playing sounds and music tutorial for Babylon.js](http://doc.babylonjs.com/page.php?p=24824)
