---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 32"
permalink: "/32"
---

## Google I/O 2015 Web Audio Demo ##

As has become customary, the announcement page for Google's annual I/O
conference is pretty spectacular. This year they have created a theme
tune with animations and sound generated using the Web Audio API. You
can click on the various 'instruments' to create your own
variations. It's very impressive, and works really well in Safari,
Firefox and Opera too.

- [https://events.google.com/io2015/](https://events.google.com/io2015/)
  (click on the equaliser to launch the demo)

## Web Audio API in Node.js ##

The Web Audio API implementation in Node.js has come on a little way
since I last looked at it. It has basic support for AudioContexts and
a handful of node types, with a clear, extensible architecture and a
good test suite. There's still a lot of work to be done, but if being
able to run Web Audio code on the server would be useful to you,
contributions are welcomed.

- [https://github.com/sebpiq/node-web-audio-api](https://github.com/sebpiq/node-web-audio-api)

## Videos from Web Audio Conf ##

The Web Audio Conference organisers have done a fantastic job of
turning around the videos of all of the talks so quickly. Take a look
at my writeup of the conference in
[issue 30](http://blog.chrislowis.co.uk/waw/2015/01/31/web-audio-weekly-30.html)
if you don't know where to start.

- [Web Audio Conference videos](http://medias.ircam.fr/search/?q=WAC+-+1st+Web+Audio+Conference)

## Benchmarking FFT performance ##

Chinmay Pendharkar has been looking at various options for calculating
Fast Fourier Transforms in JavaScript and has developed a benchmark
suite to test them against one another. If you're looking to do some
offline calculations in a Web Worker, or create some custom code in
the now-deprecated ScriptProcessor node (keep an eye on the Audio
Worker proposals!) this benchmark should be useful.

- [http://chinpen.net/webaudiofftperf/](http://chinpen.net/webaudiofftperf/)

## AudioCrawl ##

AudioCrawl gathers together a lot of audio demos and projects in one
place and makes them easy to find using tags. Although it mentions Web
Audio these demos are not exclusively built using the Web Audio API
(there's some flash in there too), but give a great overview of the
creative possibilities of audio on the web.

- [http://audiocrawl.co/](http://audiocrawl.co/)

## Converse Rubber Tracks Sample Library ##

Converse have released a massive, royalty free sample library. I have
no idea what it has to do with shoes, but it uses the Web Audio API
for auditioning the samples in the browser and is a great source of
well-recorded sounds if you need some for your next project.

- [https://www.conversesamplelibrary.com/](https://www.conversesamplelibrary.com/)
