---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 47"
permalink: "/47"
---

## The Digital Surgeons Web Audio Meetup ##

A great write-up of a Web Audio meetup hosted by The Digital Surgeons
at their New Haven office. There's some links to interesting digital
video and game experiments, and it's great to get a little glimpse of
the growing Web Audio community around the world.

- [The Digital Surgeons Web Audio Meetup](http://www.digitalsurgeons.com/thoughts/technology/turn-your-browser-up-to-11-all-about-digital-surgeons-web-audio-meetup)

## Cole Willsea's Web Audio Experiments ##

An idiosyncratic and entertaining collection of sound art experiments
from artist and developer
[Cole Willsea](https://twitter.com/colewillsea). There's a lot of fun
projects to explore here, and its always great to see people building
creative, personal things on the web.

- [http://www.shreddit-hard-co.re/](http://www.shreddit-hard-co.re/)

## Flowkey ##

Flowkey is a piano tutor application which uses either your computer's
microphone and the Web Audio API, or Web MIDI if you have a MIDI
keyboard, to work out which notes you're playing and provide you
feedback to help you learn. Sign up and the first few lessons are
free.

- [http://www.flowkey.com/](http://www.flowkey.com/en)

## Web Audio NPM packages ##

I spent a bit of time hacking on the Web Audio performance tool [loopjs](https://github.com/loopjs)
this week (more on that in a future issue). In doing so I noticed that
author Matt McKegg has made a lot of the building blocks of that
application into stand-alone NPM modules. In particular
`wave-recorder` allows you to stream the output of an audio graph to
the file system, and `audio-slot` is a FRP (functional reactive
programming) wrapper around Web Audio nodes.

- [https://www.npmjs.com/package/audio-slot](https://www.npmjs.com/package/audio-slot)
- [https://www.npmjs.com/package/wave-recorder](https://www.npmjs.com/package/wave-recorder)

## My Web Audio Reading List ##

I am frequently asked whether I can recommend books to people who are
interested in computer music, signal processing, synthesis and the
other topics I cover here in Web Audio Weekly. As a little bonus this
week, I thought I'd share with you the most-thumbed books on my
bookshelf[^1].

### Understanding Digital Signal Processing ###

This is one of the most accessible and readable textbooks I've seen
that introduces the principles of digital signal processing, covering
such topics as sampling, the Fourier Transform, and digital filter
design. While it doesn't shy away from the maths where required, all
of the detail is motivated with clear, real-world examples.

- [Understanding Digital Signal Processing. Richard G. Lyons](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/0137027419/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=0137027419&linkCode=as2&tag=chrislowis-21)

### Dance Music Manual: Tools, Toys, and Techniques ###

Get past the slightly cheesy cover and blurb and this book is
absolutely packed with practical advice on how to create digital music
of all kinds. There's detailed sections on how synthesis works,
blow-by-blow deconstructions of several genres of electronic music and
great tips on recording and mastering.

- [Dance Music Manual. Rick Snoman](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/0415825644/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=0415825644&linkCode=as2&tag=chrislowis-21)

### Computer Music ###

This book takes a slightly more academic approach to computer music
than in the Dance Music Manual, but they form a very complimentary
partnership. If you're interested in computer music programming,
especially in systems that pre-date and influence the the Web Audio
API such as MAX/MSP or PureData, this book is an excellent
introduction. It also serves as a good reference for particular forms
of digital synthesis, with a great overview of FM synthesis in
particular.

- [Computer Music. Charles Dodge](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/0028646827/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=0028646827&linkCode=as2&tag=chrislowis-21)

### The Computer Music Tutorial ###

Don't be mislead by the title. This isn't really a tutorial
introduction to computer music, rather an exhaustive, encyclopedic
survey of almost every aspect of the subject and its history. In some
areas the detail is sufficient for you to apply what you've learnt,
while in others it serves more as a starting point. The references to
source materials in other books and journals are worth the price of
the book alone. Curtis Roads edited the Computer Music Journal from
1978-2000, and is uniquely qualified to have compiled this book. It
probably won't be the first you buy, but sooner or later you'll want
it in your library.

- [The Computer Music Tutorial. Curtis Roads](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/0262680823/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=0262680823&linkCode=as2&tag=chrislowis-21)

### Welsh's Synthesizer Cookbook ###

I love this slightly odd, labour-of-love self-published book from Fred
Welsh. Half of the book contains patches for a generic 2-oscillator
analogue synth which recreate, spookily at times, the sounds of real
(and imaginary) instruments. The magic is in the first half though,
where Welsh explains how to take a recording of a sound you like from
a recording and learn how to recreate it with an analogue synth. Since
almost all of the features of a classic analogue synth are available
in the Web Audio API, the techniques are applicable to your code.

- [http://synthesizer-cookbook.com/](http://synthesizer-cookbook.com/)

## The Neuroscience of Drumming ##

An interesting article on how learning to play the drums over a long
period of time has a measurable impact on the function of the brain
and the musicians sensitivity to rhythm and timing when they're away
from the kit.

- [http://www.openculture.com/2015/08/the-neuroscience-of-drumming.html](http://www.openculture.com/2015/08/the-neuroscience-of-drumming.html)

[^1]: Some of the the links include my Amazon UK referrer code, so if
you do decide to purchase I will receive a small kickback. Thank
you. I've bought all of these books with my own money, and would
recommend them to you even without the incentive!
