---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 62"
permalink: "/62"
---

## Tools for Thought: Graphical Algebra and Fourier Analysis  ##

Steven Wittens likes to explain complicated mathematical concepts
using simple, intuitive visualisations. He calls the process a
"graphical algebra". In this slide deck, Steven explains how some of
the simple mathematical identities we learned at school can be viewed
as graphical translations - rotating, skewing and scaling. He then
takes this concept further to explain the Fourier Transform - the
mathematical function that allows us to convert time into
frequency. The resulting explanation is fantastic - and it's all
performed in real time using WebGL and the Web Audio API.

- [https://acko.net/files/gltalks/toolsforthought/](https://acko.net/files/gltalks/toolsforthought/)

## WAC 2016 ##

As I write delegates are arriving in Atlanta, Georgia for the 2nd
international Web Audio Conference (WAC). For those of us who can't be
there, the conference proceedings have been published in advance and
there should be a live-stream of the conference starting on Monday,
April 4th at 9am (EST).

There'll hopefully be a special issue of Web Audio Weekly with reports
from the conference.

- [Web Audio Conference accepted papers](https://smartech.gatech.edu/handle/1853/54577/browse?type=title)
- [Web Audio Conference live stream](http://webaudio.gatech.edu/live-stream)

## Procedural game music in BlockShip Wars ##

BlockShip Wars is an experiment in procedural game generation built in
JavaScript and WebGL. Having already generated planets, spaceships,
character names and more, when it came to the game's audio there was
only one choice - procedural generated Web Audio music. The blog post
has all the details and a demo.

- [BSWR - Procedural Music Generator](http://chadams77.tumblr.com/post/141022336683/bswr-procedural-music-generator)

## MidiWriterJS  ##

A neat and expressive library for generating multi-track MIDI
files. Notes can be added to multiple tracks with their length and
pitch specified in a familiar notation. The output can be written
directly to a MIDI file for downloading, or turned into a `data-uri`
for embedding directly into markup.

- [https://github.com/grimmdude/MidiWriterJS](https://github.com/grimmdude/MidiWriterJS)

## W3C online course on HTML5/Web Audio ##

The online course platform EdX are hosting some new courses from the
W3C including Michel Buffa's new course on advanced HTML5
techniques. By making an in-browser game you'll learn about animation,
drag-and-drop, persistence using IndexedDB, and (most importantly!)
how to add audio using the Web Audio API. The next session starts in
June, but sign up now to be reminded when it gets going.

- [HTML5 Part 2: Advanced Techniques for Designing HTML5 Apps](https://www.edx.org/course/html5-part-2-advanced-techniques-w3cx-html5-2x-0#!)

## Tascam Portastudio Simulation ##

This authentic-looking simulation of a Tascam 8-track mixing desk took
me back to my A Level music days! Switch the simulation into "playback
mixer mode" and load the demo song, then hit "play" on the simulated
Portastudio to get started. As fun as this is, I think linear editing
and mixing is one piece of retro technology that I am glad has had its
day!

- [http://www.jdwilson.ca/8track/](http://www.jdwilson.ca/8track/)

## 19 TET Keyboard ##

Why is a standard piano keyboard divided into octaves of twelve notes
each? It doesn't have to be this way, and in this post we learn about
the common "equal temperament" tuning and have chance to play with a
piano which uses a 19 note scale instead.

- [https://academo.org/demos/19-tet-keyboard/](https://academo.org/demos/19-tet-keyboard/)

## Tinyrave ##

Tinyrave is a music-making-cum-code-sharing platform. You can write
snippets of JavaScript or CoffeScript code to create sounds and
compositions and then play back and share those on the site. Popular
compositions are available on the homepage, where they can be "forked"
and used as a starting point for your own compositions.

- [http://tinyrave.com](http://tinyrave.com)

## Play Drums Online ##

Learn how to play drums online and compete with your friends through a
series of "rhythm games". If you have a MIDI-compatible electronic
drumset you can plug that into the browser to play along.

This is a great idea for lowering the barrier to entry for young
musicians to start learning an instrument, but I found it hard to
understand how to get started. I'll be watching this site to see how
it develops in the future.

- [https://www.playdrumsonline.com](https://www.playdrumsonline.com)

## Humpbacks synchronize their music across oceans, and thereâ€™s sheet music to prove it ##

A beautiful essay which explores the musical sounds of the oceans
largest creatures and the nature of music notation itself.

- [Whale Song Explained](https://medium.com/@dealville/whales-synchronize-their-songs-across-oceans-and-theres-sheet-music-to-prove-it-b1667f603844#.t292bodyt) (/via [@therewasaguy](https://twitter.com/therewasaguy/))
