---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 58"
permalink: "/58"
---

## Playing Fasttracker 2 files in JavaScript ##

My first experiences with computer music were using "trackers" on the
Amiga and MS-DOS PCs so this article takes me right back. A tracker is
a combination of sampler, synth and sequencer with a distinctive user
interface. All of the parameters and sounds are bundled together in a
particular file format so they can be shared between musicians, or
used in demos and games, for example. Andy Sloane has built a Web
Audio based player for the popular Fasttracker file format and
explained in some detail how he went about it. Thanks for the trip
down memory lane, Andy!

- [Playing Fasttracker 2 .XM files in JavaScript](https://www.a1k0n.net/2015/11/09/javascript-ft2-player.html)

## Web Audio BBQ Party in Barcelona ##

If you're in Barcelona this weekend, how about meeting up with other
Web Audio enthusiasts for a BBQ? I'm looking forward to the one day
this summer in London when the weather will be good enough to hold our
own!

- [Web Audio BBQ Barcelona](http://www.meetup.com/Web-Audio-Party-Barcelona/events/228060795/)

## * Using Web Audio API to decode and play an MP3 file ##

Learning how to play pre-recorded sounds is one of the first fun
projects you can take on with the Web Audio API. In this 3-part series
Nic Furgiuele shows how to take an MP3 file from the network, or the
users file system, decode it and play it back.

- [Using Web Audio API to decode and play an MP3 file (part 1)](http://nicdoescode.distinctive.com.au/2015/12/26/using-web-audio-api-to-decode-and-play-an-mp3-file-part-1/)

## Glowsynth ##

A simple but visually impressive synth with mouse, keyboard and MIDI
support. The best thing about this is that all of the code has been
made available on CodePen to study and change - a wonderful learning
resource.

- [Glowsynth](http://outputchannel.com/glowsynth/)

## * An introduction to Web MIDI ##

This is a great tutorial for getting started with the Web MIDI API. It
provides a bit of background on what MIDI is and why, in 2016, we
should care and then goes into detail on how to send and receive MIDI
messages. The Web MIDI API is quite low level, mirroring as it does
the MIDI specification itself. This makes it incredibly flexible, but
also presents a bit of a learning curve if you just want to play
around. This tutorial will get you up to speed quickly.

- [An Introduction to Web MIDI](http://code.tutsplus.com/tutorials/an-introduction-to-web-midi--cms-22753)

## * Understanding AudioParams ##

A key concept in the Web Audio API is the `AudioParam`. This interface
is applied to most of the parameters on Web Audio nodes and allows for
the automation of node parameters - ramping the gain of a `GainNode`,
controlling the filter frequency of a `BiquadFilter` node and so
on. This tutorial introduces the `AudioParam` and gives you some
pointers of things to be aware of when you're getting started.

- [Understanding AudioParams: Precision control of web audio nodes](http://www.soundesign.info/2016/02/07/understanding-audioparams-precision-control-web-audio-nodes/)

## Singular Value Decomposition: The Movie ##

This 1976 Los Alamos film about the singular value decomposition
algorithm, complete with squlechy-synth soundtrack, is surprisingly
mesmeric. The SVD, used to decompose a matrix into parts, has
applications for noise reduction in signal processing - but mostly I
just like the retro computer graphics.

- [1976 Matrix Singular Value Decomposition Film](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R9UoFyqJca8) (/via [@alnesbit](https://twitter.com/alnesbit/status/697522671400124418?s=09))
