---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 55"
permalink: "/55"
---

## PolyRhythm: a poly-rhythm generator and visualiser ##

A poly-rhythm is the simultaneous playing of two rhythms that we
(depending on our cultural context) perceive as being unrelated, or
not derived from one another - for example playing 5/4 time
superimposed over 4/4 time. Examples are found in sub-Saharan African
musical traditions and in modern jazz music. Peter van der Noord's app
allows you to randomly generate poly-rhythms, create your own from
scratch and visualise them as spinning disks.

- [http://www.petervandernoord.nl/polyrhythm/](http://www.petervandernoord.nl/polyrhythm/)

## Web Audio, the ugly click and the human ear ##

When you first start playing with parameter automation in Web Audio a
very common problem is the generation of "clicks" - unpleasant sounds
caused by suddenly changing value of a parameter. In this article you
can learn what causes these clicks, hear their effect and importantly
learn how to avoid them.

- [https://alemangui.github.io/blog/2015/12/26/ramp-to-value.html](https://alemangui.github.io/blog/2015/12/26/ramp-to-value.html)

## Making a WebGL music video ##

Charlie Gleason of the band Brightly has made some beautiful web-based
music videos including
[Tweetflight](http://tweetflight.wearebrightly.com/) and
[I will never let you go](https://iwillneverletyougo.com/). In this
detailed post he goes into more detail on the latter and how it was
put together using WebGL, WebRTC, Three.js and the Imgur API.

- [Making An Interactive Music Video With WebGL by @superhighfives](https://medium.com/@superhighfives/making-a-music-video-f60757ceb4cf#.ufpz9p8z6)

## Luden's Beat Box ##

This is a really-well executed MPC-style beat box implemented using
Web Audio and the react framework. The beatbox is fun to play with,
but the meat of the interest is in the reddit post that announced it -
there the authors go into some detail on the architecture, the use of
React and Webpack, and how they created a version that works on
browsers where the Web Audio API is not supported.

- [https://www.ludensbeatbox.com/](https://www.ludensbeatbox.com/)
- [https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/41vvav/i_built_an_mpc_web_app_to_learn_es6_webaudio/](https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/41vvav/i_built_an_mpc_web_app_to_learn_es6_webaudio/)

## Should your web audio app have a limiter? ##

If you play several sounds at once, there's a good chance you will
cause clipping - an unpleasant distorted sound caused by saturating
the dynamic range of your output device. To avoid this, you can use a
"limiter" - although as Sebastian Zimmer discusses in this blog post,
it's not quite as simple as dropping a `DynamicsCompressorNode` into
your node graph.

- [https://webaudiotech.com/2016/01/21/should-your-web-audio-app-have-a-limiter/](https://webaudiotech.com/2016/01/21/should-your-web-audio-app-have-a-limiter/)

## Pierre Boulez ##

Pierre Boulez, the French composer, conductor and founder of the
research institute at the centre of many of the most important
advances in computer music IRCAM, passed away in January. The UK's
Guardian carried an in-depth obituary, and the current director of
IRCAM, Frank Madlener, shared his thoughts in French and English on
the IRCAM website.

- [http://www.theguardian.com/music/2016/jan/06/pierre-boulez](http://www.theguardian.com/music/2016/jan/06/pierre-boulez)
- ["Do, react, and above all, don't repeat"](http://www.ircam.fr/creation.html?event=1594&L=1)
