---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 60"
permalink: "/60"
---

## Web Audio Arpeggiator ##

This arpeggiator-sequencer by David DeSandro has a very slick and
playable interface, combining a simple single-oscillator synth with a
arpeggiator pattern that applies to each note that is played (with the
QWERTY keyboard). It is really easy to layer up repeating patterns and
then adjust the speed and filter settings while the notes are
held. The timing is a little shaky due to a reliance on standard
JavaScript timers instead of the built in Web Audio clock. If you're
looking to experiment with similar ideas, be sure to check out
[this article on scheduling and timing with Web Audio](http://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/audio/scheduling/)
before you get started.

- [http://arpeggiator.desandro.com/](http://arpeggiator.desandro.com/)

## Klangmeister ##

Klangmeister is a live coding environment for the browser. That is -
you write code to synthesise sounds and compose melodies, but changing
the code itself immediately influences the performance. The language
you write in is Clojurescript - a compiler for the Clojure language
that compiles to JavaScript. The
[overtone](https://overtone.github.io/) live coding environment is
also clojure-based, but Klangmeister has the advantage of running
directly in the browser. And if live-coding interests you, but you're
more comfortable with JavaScript take a look at
[lissajous](http://lissajousjs.com/).

- [http://ctford.github.io/klangmeister/](http://ctford.github.io/klangmeister/)

## In brief ##

- [http://scratchthecampaign.com/](http://scratchthecampaign.com/):
  Remix and scratch US presidential campaign soundbites on your phone
  or tablet.
- [http://cadburyflavourites.co.uk/](http://cadburyflavourites.co.uk/):
  Confectionary giants Cadbury use Web Audio to allow you to "mix" your
  favourite chocolate bars.
- [droptivist](https://destroywithscience.bandcamp.com/album/droptivist):
  Matt McKegg AKA Destroy with Science releases his new album composed
  entirely with JavaScript and Web Audio.

## MediaRecorder API implemented in Google Chrome ##

The MediaRecorder API is an exciting addition to the web platform
media APIs. It allows you to record audio and video in your web
applications from a variety of sources such as WebRTC, the screen, a
webcam (via `getUserMedia`) or, soon, the output of a Web Audio API
`audiocontext`. There's loads more details and code examples in the
blog post on Google Developers.

- [https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2016/01/mediarecorder](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2016/01/mediarecorder)

## Stochastic Synthesis ##

[Nick Collins](http://composerprogrammer.com/) a researcher and
composer with an interest in generative computer music and stochastic
synthesis also experiments with the Web Audio API, including this
implementation of
[Iannis Xanakis's work GENDY](http://music.columbia.edu/cmc/courses/g6611/spring2012/week12/gendy3.pdf).

- [http://composerprogrammer.com/livecode/bpsetlivecode.html](http://composerprogrammer.com/livecode/bpsetlivecode.html) /via [@thoragnusson](https://twitter.com/thormagnusson)

## flat.io ##

Flat.io is a collaborative, online sheet music editor designed to
provide a simple and low-friction tool for music students, musicians
and teachers. This combination of the web platform and Web Audio seems
to be a interesting niche for the right applications; flat.io joins
[Noteflight](https://www.noteflight.com/) and
[Soundslice](https://www.soundslice.com/) in this space.

- [https://flat.io](https://flat.io)

## Angular 2 / TypeScript and Web Audio ##

Leigh Caplan talks about building Web Audio applications using the
Angular framework and the TypeScript JS compiler at a recent SeattleJS
meetup. This looks like a really powerful combination of technologies
for building robust, responsive Web Audio apps.

- [Nothing Sounds Quite Like An (ng)808](https://channel9.msdn.com/Blogs/seattlejs/Monthly-Meetup-February-2016-Topic-2-Nothing-Sounds-Quite-Like-An-ng808)

## Wintergatan Marble Machine ##

The culmination of an amazing design and build process, this video
from Swedish band Wintergatan is mesmerising. 2,000 ball bearings
whirr inside a Heath Robinson-like wooden contraption hitting and
bouncing off analogue and electronic instruments to produce
techno-style music. The "making of"
[videos](http://www.wintergatan.net/#/m.m.machine) are equally
wonderful.

- [http://www.wintergatan.net/](http://www.wintergatan.net/)
