---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 79"
permalink: "/79"
summary: "Voice synthesis, 8-bit game music, polyphonic synthesisers and more."
---

## Pink Trombone: Real-time vocal synthesis

Explore how human beings sing and talk with this amazing
visualisation. Move the virtual tongue, control the hard and soft
pallet, vary the size of the nasal cavity and alter the pitch of the
voice box to create a huge range of convincing vocal sounds.

- [Pink Trombone](http://dood.al/pinktrombone/)

## Recreate 8-bit game music with the Web Audio API

Greg Hovanesyan was inspired by a The 8-Bit Guy's YouTube videos
(which I linked to in the last edition of Web Audio Weekly) and took
on the challenge to recreate some classic 8 Bit music using the Web
Audio API. The details of the simple 4-channel synths are fascinating,
as is the process Greg took to convert MIDI files to JSON for
rendering with the synth.

- [Recreating legendary 8-bit games music with Web Audio API by Greg Hovanesyan on CodePen](http://codepen.io/gregh/post/recreating-legendary-8-bit-games-music-with-web-audio-api)

## Web Audio Inspector

Google's new Web Audio Inspector is now available on the Chrome web
store. The extension adds a panel to Chrome Developer Tools that lets
you inspect the live web audio graph of a web page. The parameters of
each audio node can be Inspect properties of AudioNodes by clicking
them. More information is available on Github under the Google
organisation.

- [Web Audio Inspector - Chrome Web Store](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/web-audio-inspector/cmhomipkklckpomafalojobppmmidlgl)
- [How to Use · google/audion Wiki](https://github.com/google/audion/wiki/How-to-Use)

## Polyphonic Web Audio Synth

A great-sounding polyphonic (it plays multiple notes at the same time)
synthesiser with a range of built in presets.

- [WASYN-1 : Web Audio Synth](http://www.errozero.co.uk/stuff/poly/)
- [errozero/poly-synth: Polyphonic Web Audio Synth - Demo:](https://github.com/errozero/poly-synth)

## Deadline extension for Web Audio Conference

If you were planning to submit a paper or talk proposal to this year's
Web Audio Conference (to be held August 21-23, 2017 at the Centre for
Digital Music, Queen Mary University of London) not that the deadline
for submissions has been extended. You now have until April 7th to
submit, and up to the 14th to finish up your submission. The
submission process might be a bit unfamiliar to some of you as it is
modelled on processess used frequently for academic conferences. The
last two conferences have had many submissions from developers and
musicians though, so you should feel free to submit anything you think
might be interested to the community.

- [Web Audio Conference 2017: Call for submissions](http://wac.eecs.qmul.ac.uk/call-for-submissions/)

## The best music pens on CodePen

CodePen is an interactive environment for developing and sharing
JavaScript apps. This blog post has a roundup of some of the best Web
Audio-based experiments on the site.

- [Some of the Best Music Pens on CodePen - CodePen Blog](https://blog.codepen.io/2017/03/17/best-music-pens-codepen/)

## Peter Frazer's Web Audio experiments

A collection of Web Audio examples of various synthesis techniques
including Additive, subtractive and FM synthesis.

- [Web Audio API Demo Instruments](http://www.peterfrazer.co.uk/webAudio/Level1/Instruments.html)

## Sawtooth

Sawtooth is a web application for recording, editing and storing
sounds. You can build up and manage a private library of your own
sounds, or share them with collaborators.

- [Sawtooth.io](https://www.sawtooth.io/#/)

## Demonstrations of Web Audio tube amplifier synthesis

[Michel Buffa](http://users.polytech.unice.fr/~buffa/) has been
working for a long time on a very detailed tube amplifier simulator
using Web Audio. Michel has been testing the amp and performing some
experiments to compare it to some more common hardware and software
amps. You can get a sense for how well his amplifier simulator works
in this demo on YouTube.

- [Web Audio tube sounds - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g2LzZh-_r8E)

## node-web-audio-api looking for a new maintainer

Sébastien Piquemal started work on an implementation of the Web Audio
API in Node.js. The aim of this project is to allow the same API for
to be used on both the client and the server. He's looking for a new
maintainer to push the project forward - if you're interested in
learning more about how the API is implemented under the hood, this
would be a great project to contribute to.

- [Sébastien Piquemal on Twitter: "handing-over node-web-audio-api to someone that has time to maintain it!](https://twitter.com/sebpiq/status/845677989471899648?s=09)

## Build a music visualizer

A fantastic tutorial on how to build visualisations of sound using
WebGL and Web Audio.

- [Build a Music Visualizer with the Web Audio API](https://noisehack.com/build-music-visualizer-web-audio-api/)

## Bi-directional step sequencer

Step sequencers usually work in a single direction - modelling time as
flowing from left to right on the screen. With a simple twist this
demo turns the sequencer into a grid. It's surprising how quickly
interesting cross-rhythms can be programmed using this interface.

- [Bi-directional step sequencer](http://codepen.io/jakealbaugh/pen/xqVrvE)

## Creating dance music with JS & Node.js

A very interesting talk from Walmik Deshpande. This project doesn't
actually use the Web Audio API - rather, Walmik shows how MIDI events
can be generated programmatically using a Node.js application and then
hooks these events into Ableton to handle the synthesis. The takeaway
here is that for many musical tasks it can be more intuitive to think
in terms of simple programming concepts - loops, random number
generation and so on - and to use those programs to create elements of
a composition in a more traditional interface.

- [Creating Electronic Dance Music with JS & Node.js - Walmik Deshpande](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iwuZzp_ZnLo&app=desktop)
