---
layout: post
title:  "Issue 75"
permalink: "/75"
summary: "Algorithmic music, visualisation and ADSR-envelope libraries, architectural acoustics."
---

## Mubert: algorithmically generated music

Mubert creates an endless playlist of listenable electronic music in
various styles including ambient, trap, deep house and trance. Being
entirely computer generated the music is naturally somewhat
generic-sounding but impressively orchestrated and listenable. I can
see this application working great as interruption-blocking background
music, or as part of a royalty-free soundtrack.

- [Mubert: online music composer](http://mubert.com/en/)

## Charanga seek full-time web audio developer

[Charanga](http://charanga.com/) is recruiting a full-time web audio
javascript developer to work in its Brighton, UK, seaside office (no remote
work, sorry!). Salary up to £38.5K depending on experience. Closing date
for [applications](http://charanga.com/jobs) is March 5th, 2017.

They operate over 100 websites, a couple of iOS/Android apps, a PC, Mac and
Linux desktop app and a suite of music education apps, all built with HTML,
CSS and javascript.

Charanga is used in more than 6500 schools in the UK, by tens of thousands
of teachers and pupils, and we are currently expanding globally.

Building web-audio applications to support curriculum, instrumental and
electronic music-teaching in the classroom, your initial projects will be a
secondary school composition and vocal recording application, and a
music-theory training application.

- [charanga.com/jobs](http://charanga.com/jobs) (sponsored link)

## Fastidious Envelope Generator

It's surprisingly difficult to create classic
attack-decay-sustain-release (ADSR) envelopes using parameter
automation in the Web Audio API. If you don't take care to
consistently ramp gain to zero then pops and clicks can occur;
scheduling all of the parameter changes needed for an envelope at an
arbitrary point in the future is also a complex book-keeping
exercise. This library abstracts away these implementation details and
provides you instead with a higher-level interface for declaring
parameter envelopes. A welcome addition to the Web Audio toolkit.

- [fastidious-envelope-generator: Envelope generator for the Web Audio API](https://github.com/rsimmons/fastidious-envelope-generator)

## Clubber - audio reactive visualizations

Clubber is a JavaScript library that takes the hard work out of
creating synced visualisations of audio. Connect the clubber node to
another audio node in your Web Audio application and you can
periodically request a variety of measures of the sound - for example
the average energy of all active notes or a power-weighted average
MIDI index. The github page for the library links to some fantastic
demos.

- [wizgrav/clubber: Application of music theory in audio reactive visualizations](https://github.com/wizgrav/clubber)

## Book: JavaScript for Sound Artists

This new book from William Turner and Steve Leonard looks
interesting. It hasn't been published yet, and I haven't read a copy,
but the table of contents promises a full-introduction to programming
in JavaScript for non-programming artists followed by a tour of the
features of the Web Audo API.

- [JavaScript for Sound Artists: Learn to Code with the Web Audio API](http://amzn.to/2jC7s36)

## DrumIt - create your own drum beats

A fun grid-sequencer drum machine application with a variety of sample
acoustic and electronic drum kits. You can save the patterns you come
up with and export them as WAV files.

- [DrumIt: create your own drum beats on any mobile device or desktop](http://drumit.site/)

## Tonehack

Tonehack is an exploration in timbre - how the tonal qualities of a
sound can vary so much even when the pitch stays the same. It puts you
in control of each harmonic of the sound by allowing you to draw the
volume and pitch envelopes and how they vary with time. A large
variety of presets helps to illustrate the theory.

- [tonehack.com](http://tonehack.com/)

## 99% Invisible: The Evolution of Architectural Acoustics

The history of the study of reverberation covered beautifully in this
20min podcast episode and show notes from the 99% Invisible team.

- [Reverb: The Evolution of Architectural Acoustics](http://99percentinvisible.org/episode/reverb-evolution-architectural-acoustics/)
